  Childcare Network of Evanston Case Study
[Modified from Jen B.’s version]
    
    Project overview
My Role
Web Developer
The Team
6 Developers, 3 UX Designers, 1 UX Researcher, 1 Brand Designer, 1 Project Manager
The product: Website redesign for the Childcare Network of Evanston's (CNE), a non-profit connecting
young learners and their families with high-quality, equitable early childhood experiences and resources.
Project duration:
6 Months
           
   Project overview
     The problem
CNE wanted to refresh their online presence and improve the site’s information organization. Some specific needs included:
1. Making the site easier to update and customize
2. Improving navigation and usability
3. Implementing accessibility features and a mobile-friendly, responsive design
The goal
The website redesign aimed to create a user-friendly, modern, and engaging site where users could easily find relevant resources. This included helping parents access quality, affordable early childhood education; and keeping the community up-to-date about CNE events and initiatives.
CNE also wanted an easy, intuitive way to update content while maintaining a consistent look and feel.

   Project overview
    My role
I developed key site features in collaboration with the design team. This involved:
● Designing and implementing new tables and forms – as part of the team’s broader content management system design.
● Creating visually engaging, responsive, data-driven Webflow templates
Responsibilities
● Designed and implemented data architecture for efficient content organization.
● Ensured website is responsive across all devices.
● Built dynamic templates and reusable components.
● Used the Relume design system to ensure consistency and pixel-perfect implementation of designs.
● Created and tested data collection forms while managing CMS data entry.

   ● User research Research & Analysis ● Content analysis
● Platform analysis
  
   Use of AI
Designed and implemented a “Step-by-step” guide for new families to communicate the application process quickly and easily.
● Fed existing website content into ChatGPT (based on Laura’s prompt engineering workshops)
○ Added prompts and uploaded files to train the GPT on a knowledge base.
○ Served as a design assistant to
● Then could ask it to group the content to create summaries of services
● Validate ChatGPT by:
○ Looking up the source
○ Asking one question at a time
 
   Preliminary Research
  Stakeholder analysis: Assessed existing website, identifying key stakeholders & their needs
Information architecture: Devised a content organization strategy & sitemap Platform research: Researched content management systems and website
builders; compiled a matrix of benefits, limitations, and tradeoffs
Client feedback: Met with client periodically to validate our assumptions and get feedback on our recommendations.

   Research: Stakeholder Analysis
1234
       Families & Caregivers
Goals: exploring early childhood education options, including funded programs, local childcare providers, and eligibility criteria.
Community Members & Donors
Goals: browsing upcoming events and ways to support CNE; learning about CNE’s impact and accomplishments.
Educators & Care Providers
Goals: accessing CNE’s early childhood education materials; finding out about upcoming professional development workshops.
CNE Staff
Goals: Effectively reaching all community stakeholders; communicating their impact; and being able to post updates quickly and easily.
     
   Research: Content Analysis
  User-centered navigation: Reorganized the sitemap in order to group content by stakeholder (e.g., “For Families,” “For Supporters”, “For Educators”)
Card sort: Participated in a collaborative card sorting activity to group existing web pages by stakeholder
Identified information gaps: Analyzed existing content to identify potential areas of confusion.
Designed new introductory pages to help new families understand how to access services.
 
   Research: Platform Analysis & Selection
  Platform Price Simplicity Customization Capabilities
  - Wix $29/mo
-
Very user-friendly, drag-and-drop editor. No coding required.
Limited customization. Built-in tools are easy but can feel restrictive for advanced users.
  - Squarespace $23/mo
-
Easy to use with a polished, intuitive interface.
No coding needed.
Limited customization through built-in templates, but more flexible than Wix.
  - WordPress $25/mo
-
Editing interface a bit complicated
No coding required
Highly customizable. Thousands of themes, plugins, and full code access for custom development.
  Webflow
$23/mo
- -
Simple editing interface (much simpler than WordPress)
No coding required
Extremely customizable. Third-party plugins available. Offers extensive design control with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript integration. Integrated CMS.

   Research: Platform Analysis & Selection
  Decided on Webflow:
● Customizable and modern
● Great documentation and learning resources
● Enabled us to use a design system
● Supported database tables, forms, and data-driven templating
● Easy to edit / maintain for content managers

   Implementation research
1
Finding a platform
Researched the various pros and cons of using Wix, SquareSpace, Webflow, and Wordpress.
2
Settling on Webflow
Learned how to use Webflow, including how to leverage an existing CMS and how to use the widgets.
      
    Design
● Mockups
● High-fidelity prototype
● Designing in Webflow
 
   Digital Wireframes (Laura & Anita working on this)
  Main mockup screen for display
  Main mockup screen for display
  Main mockup screen for display

   High Fidelity Mockups (Laura & Anita working on this)
  Main mockup screen for display
  Main mockup screen for display
  Main mockup screen for display

    Implementation
● Front-end development and UI
● Database and CMS development
 
  My Contribution [Sample #1]
Designed and implemented a “Step-by-step” guide for new families to communicate the application process quickly and easily.
● Researched appropriate Relume components
● Imported and customized Relume timeline
component into Webflow
● Included links to relevant pages for new families to find more information
● Integrated design system CSS classes
   
 My Contribution [Sample #2]
Redesigned and reorganized the program partners page:
● Migrated all program partners to a database table within the CMS.
● Designed and implemented a data-driven Webflow template to feature CNE’s community partners more prominently.
● Integrated design system components and CSS classes
     
   Accessibility considerations (still TODO)
123
         Insert one to two sentence summaries describing each accessibility consideration applied in your designs.
Insert one to two sentence summaries describing each accessibility consideration applied in your designs.
Insert one to two sentence summaries describing each accessibility consideration applied in your designs.

    Going forward
● Takeaways ● Next steps
 
    Static Content
Database Logo Upload
    Dynamic Template
 
   Takeaways
     Impact:
While user testing and evaluation is ongoing, the client is pleased with the look and feel of the website and the improved ability to edit it while maintaining visual consistency.
They also appreciate the increased user-friendliness of the website, and its improved organization
What I learned:
Insert a few sentences summarizing what you learned throughout the project.

   Next steps
123
         Insert a few sentences summarizing the next steps you would take with this project and why.
Insert a few sentences summarizing the next steps you would take with this project and why.
Insert a few sentences summarizing the next steps you would take with this project and why.

   Let’s connect!
   Insert a brief sentence or two about contacting you and/or reviewing more of your work.
Provide your contact information here. This might include your email address, phone number, and website or link to other professional platforms.
